Draft bionic document (#2389)
travis-ci/docs-travis-ci-com: user/reference/bionic.md

---
title: The Ubuntu 18.04 Build Environment
layout: en
---

## What This Guide Covers

This guide provides an overview of the packages, tools and settings available in the Bionic environment.

> ## Using Bionic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic Beaver)
```

> To route your builds to Ubuntu 18.04 LTS, add the following to your `.travis.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To route your builds to Ubuntu 18.04 LTS, Bionic, add the following to your `.travis.yml`:
```

```yaml
dist: bionic
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

> Please note that Bionic is available on our hosted fully virtualized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Please note that Bionic is available at travis-ci.com and travis-ci.org, on the fully virtualized
```

infrastructure. If you are running an Enterprise installation, please reach out

> to [enterprise@travis-ci.com](mailto:enterprise@travis-ci.com?subject=Try%20out%20Bionic) to see how you can use the Bionic Docker images.

Reviewer: @JaroslawSokol is Bionic on enterprise already available? Shall we have dedicated public instructions for it? Thank you!

Reviewer 2: No, there is no support for Bionic available in last Enterprise release (2.2.11).
I think we should not mention it yet for Enterprise.
cc @danishkhan

Author: The note being removed

> ## Differences from the previous relealse images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Differences from the previous release images
```

> Travis CI Ubuntu 18.04 includes the following changes and improvements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Travis CI Ubuntu 18.04, Bionic, includes the following changes and improvements:
```

### Third party apt-repositories removed

While third party apt-repositories are used during the image provisioning, they are all removed from the Bionic build image. This has two benefits; a) reduced risk of unrelated interference and b) faster apt-get updates.

To specify a third party apt-repository, you can [add the source with the apt addon](/user/installing-dependencies/#adding-apt-sources) and specify the packages. For example:

```yaml
dist: bionic

> group: dev

Reviewer: @zhengpenghou when is the `group: dev` tag needed?

Reviewer: @zhengphou @zhengpenghou ^^

Author: Yes. it's needed for now as a preview release.

Reviewer 3: So then we need to add it everywhere we use `dist: bionic`, such as in the Snap pages I think? And we should probably explain on this page why it is there.

Author: If plan to use Ubuntu 18.04,  bionic is the one should be used to choose the right image.  This information has been updated in relevant pages.

Reviewer 3: Right, but I'm still talking about `group: dev`.

Author: we have 3 group tags now, stable, edge and dev. @MariadeAnton your thoughts?

Reviewer 3: Maria is away for another week. 
@zhengphou do you want to add a tiny note to this document detail when to use `dev` and see how we go from there?

Author: Done

addons:
  apt:
    sources:
      - ppa:chris-lea/redis-server
    packages:
    - redis-tools
    - redis-server
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

If you depend on these repositories in your build, you can use the following `source` line to get them back:

| package              | source                       |
|:---------------------|:-----------------------------|
| couchdb              | `https://apache.bintray.com/couchdb-deb`         |
| docker               | `docker-bionic`              |
| google-chrome-stable | `google-chrome`              |
| git-lfs              | `github-git-lfs-bionic`      |
| git-ppa              | `ppa:git-core/ppa`           |
| haskell              | `ppa:hvr/ghc`                |
| mongodb              | `mongodb-4.0-binoic`         |
| pollinate            | `ppa:pollinate/ppa`          |
| redis                | `ppa:chris-lea/redis-server` |
{: style="width: 80%" }

### Services disabled by default

> On our Ubuntu 18.04 based infrastructure, to speed up boot time and improve performance we've disabled all services, including the ones that are started by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Ubuntu 18.04 based environment, to speed up boot time and improve performance we've disabled all services by default.
```

> Add any services that you want to start by default to your `.travis.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add any services that you want to start to your `.travis.yml`:
```

```yaml
services:
  - mysql
  - redis
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

## Environment common to all Ubuntu 18.04 images

> The following versions of Docker, version control software and compilers are present on all builds, along with more language specific software described in more detail in each language section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following versions of Docker, version control software and compilers are present on all Ubuntu 18.04 builds, along with more language specific software described in more detail in each language section.
```

```yaml
dist: bionic
group: dev
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

> > Please note that Bionic support is newly being built, to use it, **dev** is needed. 

Reviewer 4: Unfortunately, I don't understand what "Bionic support is newly being built" means?
